---
title: "Force2019 meeting: our impressions? "
author: "Julien Colomb, ..."
date: "2019-10-20"
layout: post
categories: infrastructure
---

Joint post by [Julien Colomb](https://twitter.com/jcolomb/), ...

# Force 2019 Edinburgh

See talks and poster via the link to the [zenodo collection](https://zenodo.org/communities/force2019)



## What is force 2019

For one week, xxx participants (researchers, publishers, librarians, open source software developers and others) met to talk about scholarly communication in Edinburgh. Among them several members of the open science mooc were present: Jon tennant (OSmooc, professional open science advocate), Johanna Haveman (Africaarxiv, freelance trainer), Julien Colomb (Data manager, reagents.io), Simaon XXX (GenR), Bianca Kramer (101innovation.org). We had a productive and pleasant time there and we want to share our experience here.

## Our hall of fame

### It is all about people

As for many conferences, the most interesting and important aspect of FORCE meeting is the crowd attending. Hanging out with old and new friends, get to know the fantastic people behing famous project as well and get to know other interesting, although not publisized, project was great. As example,
we could get along Heather Pick.XXX-LINK and the "famous Jason" (Jason Priem-LINK, the team behind unpaywall-LINK); meeting Naomi LINK from ASAPbio, and XXX from COS was a nice experience. On the other hand, chatting with Meg XXX (Wikidatian)

### A FOSS focus

The questions of open source software was particularly well discussed this year. This is best represented by the award ceremony, where different open source project were celebrated. While there were no price attached, a lot of project were nominated, some famous (PKP, wikidata), but some not. In particular, a indish project that brought x books in Tamil language into the public domain was particularly impressive.

A lot of discussion is going on for crediting them, with a particular focus on software citation (hackathon in the first day, and different presentation about software and data citation). The question of the sustainability of these FOOS was also in the center of Dario XXX presentation, and in the mind of many when discussing the infrastructure problematics. Remarcably, the presentation of JOOS was enlightning. It was very nice to see the github issue system used for software peer review.

This could only be mirored with the coffee break discussions about COS that is running out of funds, as well as about GitHub, where 90% of projects are deposited. The fact that GitHub cannot be used with Safari anymore is indeed worrying. We hope our move of the MOOC into a own instance of Gitlab is a necessary step now, and it will pave the way for other organisation and software.


### open source project we take part in

the Wikidata workshop was a great introduction into linked data principles, the creation of linked data in the platform is particularly easy and the possiblities wikidata offers for research communication seem unlimited.

Julien Colomb was able to revive the www.reagent.io project (dealing with proper description of materials in the life science literature), thanks to discussion with Melissa (elife), mark XXX and especially Nicole XXX (first author of the reference paper in the field LINK). He could also get input and create an initial community around an author list creator application, talking with people from e-life, CRediT, authorea and pkp. He was also thrilled to give some input to another interesting project to save papers that ended up in "predatory journals" (LINKtoposter, Jeanette XXX). 

### Economy of scholarly communication

FORCE is probably the only conference where librarians and publishers are both coming as participants. 



### Worth mentioning

The meta project... 

CAN we trust the Chan&zuckerberg foundation?
